We want to start shaping our data, to import them into the data model in a really clear and good structure.
Let's do this.
So this is the overview we had in the last video when we finished our population combined query,
let me just switch to that query by the way. Now this takes a few seconds to load that query but that
should be done soon,
here it is.
So this is where we now want to start our work
and you remember, we want to create three tables, two DIM tables and one population table and all the
information we need is summarized in that table at the moment,
so we basically want to split that table
and as I want to split the table or that query
but I don't want to change that initial query, so that population combined query we created,
we should copy that query three times, for the two DIM tables
and the FACT table.
Now when I say copy, this is not totally true because we have two options on how to copy that query and
you have two options on how to access that options.
The first option is if you right-click on to that query, if you now go down, you see that you can create
a duplicate or a reference for that query.
Now the same thing can be found if you go to the home ribbon, go to manage and here you can delete that query
of course which is something that you want to know and you can create a duplicate and the reference
again.
Now we want to do something like that
but first you have to understand what the difference between a duplicate and a reference is.
Let's take a look at that.
So the starting point is basically a source file right, in this source file,
we have three columns of information, column ABC.
Now what we did so far, we use that source file and we are in a query editor
and then we only used two columns, so Column C was deleted for instance,
so we don't have that connection at the moment.
So we have that query, in our case this is the combined query,
now we could do two things.
We could first duplicate that query, like this,
what happens then is that the initial connection will remain,
so we have a second connection to that source file actually
and what will also remain are all of the steps that we did so far.
So if you should think about the applied steps column, you would see all the cleaning steps we did also
in that query too, so that duplicated query of query one.
This is one option,
this is the duplicate but we can do something else,
we can also create a reference like this.
The difference between the duplicate and the reference is that the reference now refers to the first
query and not to the source file,
this means if we create a reference, we can simply use the existing steps we did and build on on that.
So this means we don't need another external connection to the source files and in the applied steps
column, we only see one step and this is the connection of query two, the reference query to query one,
the initially created query.
So this is what we want to do,
we want to create a query reference because we already did all the work and the cleaning of the data
and we already have a connection to the source file,
so we don't need a second connection.
This is why we will now create that reference in our project,
let's do this in the next video.